>> Steve Kinney: There are a lot of cases
where if you can pull stuff apart and
unit tests are great, do it, right?
Unit tests are fast.
If you've pulled enough pieces apart and
started to untangle the knot.
And again, there's no judgment.
There are parts of my code base
that are broken out into small
well-named functions, there are parts
of my code base that are not, right?
You are always balancing these,
quote-unquote,
best practices with reality.
Reality is sometimes time crunches,
reality is just sometimes
things get that way, right?
And you're constantly battling back
complexity, and that's your job.
And so there's no judgment for
if things have become a bundled
ball of chewing gum and string.
Because there are parts of my code
base that are really easy to test and
have 100% test coverage, and
there are parts that aren't.
Let's just say that, right?
And that is very true, right?
And the thing is, it's like, well,
we're not gonna do anything.
You're never gonna get six months
to untangle it all, right?
The idea is, you put enough in place.
Again, it's about lowering that stress
threshold more than anything else.
And sometimes, yeah,
I can't get at that function,
I cannot pull out that getter, got it.
Sometimes the best thing to do is,
at the end of the day,
nobody cares about dependency injection or
how you structure your code.
Some of the biggest code
bases that I've ever seen
are some of the worst code
bases I've ever seen, right?
before there was some tool, whatever.
I have heard stories that
I'm not at liberty to
share of 14,000 line user control
files on the server side, right?
And that organizations were a subclass
of users and were another 10,000 lines.
And this is a tool you use every day.
And so, yeah, we can have these
strategies, we can have best practices.
But even my own code base,
cuz it's open-source,
I might as well not lie about it, has some
bodies buried in various places, right?
And so with that, yeah,
cuz sometimes its time crunches,
sometimes over time,
things just degrade, right?
And so then coming up with a strategy
approach of how you do it.
At the end of the day,
unit testing is fast and easy.
But when someone visits the page,
does it work, right?
So we are briefly gonna
talk about Playwright.
Now, to be fair, one could do
an entire day on Playwright, right?
So I'm going to kind of
do the high level thing.
And if it's something we're interested in,
we can dig deeper into it another day.
But let's at least talk about this, and
one other strategy that I'll kinda add
as a further reading exercise as well,
and how these things all kinda
play along with each other.
Okay, so what Playwright does, and
Cyprus is another alternative, right?
Fine, whatever one works for you,
there's a whole course in
Cyprus that we already did.
Playwright is what I use today,
so that's what we're gonna cover.
Basically, what it does is,
is it takes a browser, right?
Could be Chrome, could be Firefox,
might even be Safari,
and it points it at your site.
And literally, if those component
tests we saw were testing,
we're supposed to simulate a user.
This is really just firing up a browser,
pointing it at a website, and
doing the thing, right?
And so I have one that's kinda
filled out a little bit.
And then I have one that is not so
much to kinda show you.
One thing I wanna point out is,
and this is on purpose.
That if I only showed you this part of it,
right, you would be like,
that looks a lot,
other than his little
bonus weight in there.
That looks a lot like testing library,
right?
That is because testing library
did that on purpose, right?
And the difference is, that was loading a
component mounting to a simulated DOM and
letting you do stuff with it.
Great for individual components,
right, super fast, but
a lot of times you are missing
the entirety of the app, right?
And there's a time and
a place for have both.
Unit tests are fast, easy,
you get that feedback.
You can see exactly what line
wasn't doing what you expected.
But overall, sometimes you gotta
look at the big picture too.
And so yes, this is going to
theoretically pull up the app.
It's going to navigate
to a particular page.
I think this one's running
at 3,000 now though,
cuz I have two servers
going at the same time.
And it's going to navigate to it and it's
gonna expect it to have a given title,
just simply by looking at the page itself.
And some of the tooling is
really great about this as well.
So if we go to local host 3,000,
you kinda see the app real quick.
>> Steve Kinney: Is that not
the port that is running on?
Server's on 3,000, sorry.
This is at 51 74.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, it's a to-do list.
Who's never seen a to-do list example app?
>> Steve Kinney: Great, this one's got
a little bit of a server thing going on,
awesome, cool, cool, cool.
You can add stuff, you can move stuff,
you can check it, it's done.
And these tests are great because you
don't necessarily need to have pulled
anything apart, right?
If you're just saying, I would like to
start refactoring stuff, and the act of
pulling stuff apart to get it easier to
unit test causes my anxiety to go up.
These tests are great.
They're heavy and take forever to run, and
they are a little bit flakier than seeing
it four was the output of two plus two.
But if you need a lot of test
coverage real fast and not,
this will never show up on a test
coverage report in any meaningful way.
But spiritually, if you need to know that
you haven't fundamentally broken your app,
this thing is at least gonna go through
the app faster than you are, right?
And so here we have it running.
And then I have some tests in here.
And then we'll show it on that
accident counter, too, so
you can see it in both ways.
I did change that to the wrong port.
Cool, So let's go ahead and
let's spin this one up.
So I just have it set
as npx Playwright test.
>> Steve Kinney: And you can see that
it is going to pull up chromium and
give me a full report, but
should add the test is failing.
We'll take a look at that in a second.
What I wanna do is, get the dash dash UI,
cuz this is really great.
Because you can see, not only,
you can run all your tests from here,
but you can also see the timeline, right?
So there it was loading.
>> Steve Kinney: It goes ahead.
And you can see, with the click events,
you can see that little button of where
it clicked, where to highlight event.
Just like we saw with the plug in before,
you could actually take this and
you can get by placeholder,
or you can get by label text,
or so on and so forth.
Sometimes the automatic selector isn't
the best, but you can kinda go through.
You can even navigate through the page,
see it before and after, and
begin to navigate through everything.
My problem is that right now this one
isn't clearing stuff out in between,
which we will talk about as
a separate thing in a second.
But we'll do this with the async counter,
and
then I'll show you some
techniques around this as well.
But, this is the first one I opened up,
but you can actually kinda go through and
just take it on your app today.
In fact,
this is going to local host 5,174.
You could point this thing at production,
right?
Good luck navigating login and
stuff like that.
But theoretically, it is just a browser
that you are controlling with JavaScript,
right?
And it pulls up your application and
it goes through, and
it can start hitting buttons and
doing things, right?
This is one running locally
in development, but
we can also take a look at
other examples as well.
But you can kinda see an individual test
in a given case, so on and so forth.
Again, the timeline, everything.
The important part is, let's look at,
other than a MPX Playwright in it and
a tiny little bit of test files, there's
not much that I've written in here, right?
But we will talk about one of
the problems in a second, which is,
basically what we're saying is,
fire up the browser,
go to the page, right,
before each one, right?
In this case, it should have the title
that we expect, right, in the browser.
Go ahead and get the input field,
create task,
find the Submit button,
type something in, and click.
This one, it is little angry cuz
I've got seven with the same title.
We will talk about some of
those problems in a second.
Go find a heading, right,
that has the name of the title,
we can expect it to be
visible on the page.